# Team MembersGitHub Members: [Erick Hernandez](https://github.com/Hernandez227/programming2),[Eduardo Uicab](https://github.com/Eduardobricenio/programming2)  #Programming paradigm~~~ Never use the phrase “programming language paradigm.”A paradigm is a way of doing something (like programming), not a concrete thing (like a language). Now, it’s true that if a programming language L happens to make a particular programming paradigm P easy to express, then we often say “L is a P language” (e.g. “Haskell is a functional programming language”) but that does not mean there is any such thing as a “functional language paradigm”.~~~## Declarative: - Functional: (Applicative): Programming with function calls that avoid any global state.- Dataflow- Logic, Constraint-based.- Template-based- Structured  ## Imperative: - Von Neumann- Interpreted (Scripting)- Object-oriented## Declarative programming: ~~~is a programming paradigm that expresses the logic of a computation(What do) without describing its control flow(How do). Some well-known examples of declarative domain specific languages (DSLs) include CSS, regular expressions, and a subset of SQL (SELECT queries,for example) Many markup languages such as HTML, MXML, XAML, XSLT... are often declarative. The declarative programming try to blur thedistinction between a program as a set of instructions and a program as an assertion about the desired answer.~~~##- Functional:The functional programming paradigms has its roots in mathematics and it is language independent. The key principal of this paradigms is the execution of series of mathematical functions. The central model for the abstraction is the function which are meant for some specific computation and not the data structure. Data are loosely coupled to functions.The function hide their implementation. Function can be replaced with their values without changing the meaning of the program. Some of the languages like perl, javascript mostly uses this paradigm.## - DataflowIn computer programming, dataflow programming is a programming paradigm that models a program as a directed graph of the data flowing between operations, thus implementing dataflow principles and architecture. Dataflow programming languages share some features of functional languages, and were generally developed in order to bring some functional concepts to a language more suitable for numeric processing. Some authors use the term datastream instead of dataflow to avoid confusion with dataflow computing or dataflow architecture.## - LogicIt can be termed as abstract model of computation. It would solve logical problems like puzzles, series etc. In logic programming we have a knowledge base which we know before and along with the question and knowledge base which is given to machine, it produces result. In normal programming languages, such concept of knowledge base is not available but while using the concept of artificial intelligence, machine learning we have some models like Perception model which is using the same mechanism.## - structuredStructured programming is a kind of imperative programming where control flow is defined by nested loops,conditionals,and subroutines, rather than via gotos. Variables are generally local to blocks (have lexical scope)##Imperative programming:~~~is a programming paradigm that describes computation in terms of statements that change a program state. The declarative programs  can be dually viewed as programming commands or mathematical assertions.~~~## - Object-orientedOOP is based on the sending of messages to objects. Objects respond to messages by performing operations, generally called methods. Messages can have arguments. A society of objects, each with their own local memory and own set of operations has a different feel than the monolithic processor and single shared memory feel of non object oriented languages.## - Interpreted (Scripting)An interpreted program, sometimes called a script , is a program whose instructions are actually a logically sequenced series of operating system commands, handled one at a time by a command interpreter . In turn, the command interpreter requests services from the operating system. The writer of the interpreted program need not be concerned by low-level storage management considerations. On the other hand, an interpreted program can not be as efficient as a compiled program, which has been processed by a language compiler. A language compiler converts source statements into something close to the strings of 0's and 1's that a processor ultimately is given to work on. Because this work is already done before a compiled program is run, it runs much more quickly.#Data Representations and operators  [Identifier:](https://www.thoughtco.com/definition-of-identifier-958092)  In C, C++, C# and other programming languages, an identifier is a name that is assigned by the user for a program element such as variable, type, template, class, function or namespace. It is usually limited to letters, digits, and underscores. Certain words, such as "new," "int" and "break," are reserved keywords and cannot be used as identifiers. Identifiers are used to identify a program element in the code. Computer languages have restrictions for which characters can appear in an identifier. For example, in early versions of the C and C++ languages, identifiers were restricted to a sequence of one or more ASCII letters, digits, which may not appear as the first character, and underscores. Later versions of these languages support almost all Unicode characters in an identifier with the exception of white space characters and language operators.   ##What is a variable in c?A [variable](https://fresh2refresh.com/c-programming/c-variables/) is nothing but a name given to a storage area that our programs can manipulate. Each variable in C has a specific type, which determines the size and layout of the variable's memory; the range of values that can be stored within that memory; and the set of operations that can be applied to the variable.  These are some types of variables:  **1. Char**: Typically a single octet(one byte). It is an integer type.  **2. Int**: The most natural size of integer for the machine.  **3. Float:** A single-precision floating point value.  **4. Double:** A double-precision floating point value.  **5. Void:** Represents the absence of type.  C programming language also allows to define various other types of variables, which we will cover in subsequent chapters like Enumeration, Pointer, Array, Structure, Union, etc. For this chapter, let us study only basic variable types.  ##Constants   As the name suggests the name [constants](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/constants-in-c-cpp/) is given to such variables or values in C/C++ programming language which cannot be modified once they are defined. They are fixed values in a program. There can be any types of constants like integer, float, octal, hexadecimal, character constants etc. You can define it by two ways:    > Using #define preprocessor directive      > Using a const keyword      ***Literals:** The values assigned to each constant variables are referred to as the literals. Generally, both terms, constants and literals are used interchangeably. For eg, “const int = 5;“, is a constant expression and the value 5 is refered to as constant integer literal.  ***Const keyword:** Using const keyword to define constants is as simple as defining variables, the difference is you will have to precede the definition with a const keyword.   ##Reserved words  In C, we have 32 [keywords](https://beginnersbook.com/2014/01/c-keywords-reserved-words/), which have their predefined meaning and cannot be used as a variable name. These words are also known as “reserved words”. It is good practice to avoid using these keywords as variable name.   ***if, else, switch, case, default:** – Used for decision control programming structure.   ***break** – Used with any loop OR switch case.  ***int, float, char, double, long** – These are the data types and used during variable declaration.  ***for, while, do** – types of loop structures in C.  ***void** – One of the return type.  ***goto** – Used for redirecting the flow of execution.  ***auto, signed, const, extern, register, unsigned** – defines a variable.  ***return** – This keyword is used for returning a value.  ***continue** – It is generally used with for, while and do while loops, when compiler encounters this statement it performs the next iteration of the loop, skipping rest of the statements of current iteration.  ***enum** – Set of constants.  ***sizeof** – It is used to know the size.  ***struct, typedef**  – Both of these keywords used in structures (Grouping of data types in a single record).  ***union** – It is a collection of variables, which shares the same memory location and memory storage.  ##Types of data: primitives and compositesIn computer science, a [composite data type or compound data type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Composite_data_type) is any data type which can be constructed in a program using the programming language's primitive data types and other composite types. It is sometimes called a structure or aggregate data type, although the latter term may also refer to arrays, lists, etc. The act of constructing a composite type is known as composition. Composite data types are often contrasted with scalar variables.   C language supports four [primitive types](https://codeforwin.org/2017/08/data-types-in-c-programming.html#primitive) - char, int, float, void. Primitive types are also known as pre-defined or basic data types.  Data Type	|	Size	 |	Range		| Description		|  --|--  Char		| 1 byte	 | -128 to +127	 | A character		|  Int		| 2 or 4 bytes	 |-32,768 to 32,767 	 | An integer		|  Float 		| 4 byte	 | 1.2E-38		 | Single floating point number	| Void		| 1 byte 	 |			 | type stores nothing 	|	  ##Distributed version control (git)	  [Distributed version control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_version_control) (also known as distributed revision control) is a form of version control in which the complete codebase, including its full history, is mirrored on every developer's computer.[1] This enables automatic management branching and merging, speeds up most operations (except pushing and pulling), improves the ability to work offline, and does not rely on a single location for backups.git clone---- Clone a repository into a new directory   git init----- Create an empty Git repository or reinitialize an exisiting one   git add------ add file contents to the index   git mv------- Move or rename a file, a directory, or a symlink  git reset---- Reset current HEAD to the specified state   git status--- You can see the status of your file or repository   git rm------- Remove files from the working tree and from the index   git reset---- Reset current HEAD to the specified state  git checkout- Switch branches or restore working tree files   git commit--- Record changes to the repository  git diff----- Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc    git merge---- Join two or more development histories together    git rebase--- Reapply commits on top of another base trip    git tag------ Create, list, delete or verify a tag object signed with GPG  git pull----- Fetch from and integrate with another repository or a local branch  git push----- Update remote refs along with associated objects     git remote--- Show you all the names of every remote that you have     echo--------- You need to write this for print whatever you want    .gitignore--- Is for archives that you not want to upload or save in your branch    git log------ List the confirmations made over in your repository    git log--stat If you want to see a stadistics of every confirmation of your edited archive-- pretty--- Modify the output format  the main options of "git log"-p --------- Shows the patch entered in each confirmation  --name-status It shows the list of affected files, also indicating if they were added, modified or deleted.  --relative-date Show the date in relative format  --graph----- Displays an ASCII chart with branch and junction history  --abbrev-commit  It shows only the first characters of the SHA-1 sum, instead of the 40 characters of which it is composed.  --name-only   Displays the list of affected files  .--shortstat   Show only the summary line of the --stat option.  --since, --after   Shows those confirmations made after the specified date.  --until, --before  Shows those confirmations made before the specified date.  --committer   Shows only those commits whose commit matches the specified string.  --author   Show only those commits whose author matches the specified string.  git fetch -- If you want to obtain your remote projects  git remote rename-- This is for rename the file that you uploaded  git show---- You can see the tag information along with the commit  git diff--staged This command compares your prepared changes with the last confirmed snapshot.  git diff--cached To see what you have prepared so far  git difftoolyou will be able to see the changes with programs of this type like Araxis, emerge, vimdiff and more.  git commit -a You will have Git automatically prepare all tracked files before committing them, saving you from the git add stepecho 'project1' >README If you want to create a new file when you have little description of your code git status -s   You will get a much more simplified output  .git commit -v For a more explicit way to remember what you have changed  git rm --cached Keep the file on your hard drive but without Git still tracking it.  git rm log/\*.log  You can pass files, directories and glob patterns to it.  git rm \*~   This command deletes all files with the extension  git log -p  Shows the differences entered in each confirmation  git log --stat   For code reviews, or to quickly view what has happened in confirmations submitted by a contributor.  git log --pretty  Modify the format of the output.  git log -Sfunction_name    It receives a string and only shows the commits that changed the code by adding or removing the string.  git commit --amend  If you want to redo the confirmation  git remote -v  Shows the URLs that Git has associated with the name and that will be used when reading and writing on that remote  git remote add  Add a new remote and associate it with a name that you can easily referencegit fetch pb  It is not to write the full URL  git fetch origin   It brings all the new work that has been sent to that server since you cloned it    git remote show   If you want to see more information about a particular remote    git remote rename   If you want to change the reference name of a remote    git config --global alias.   If you don't want to type the full name of each Git command, you can easily set an alias    git branch   If you want to create a new branch    git log --oneline --decorate   To show you where each branch points.  git log --oneline --decorate --graph --all   It will show the history of your confirmations, indicating where the pointers of your branches are and how your history has diverged.  git checkout -b   To create and jump to a new branch, in one step  git merge   You can perform the appropriate tests, make sure that the solution is correct, and incorporate the changes into the master branch to put them into production.  git branch -d  Is to delete a branch forever  git mergetool   If instead of solving directly you prefer to use a graphical tool  git branch -v  To view the latest change confirmation for each branch  git branch --merged   If you want to see the branches that have been merged with the active branch  git branch --no-merged    To show all branches containing unbound jobs  git fetch teamone  To retrieve all content from the remote  git checkout --track   Prepare other monitoring branches if you want to have some that follow other remote branches or not follow the master branch.  git checkout -b   To prepare a local branch with a different name than the remote one, you can use the first version with a different local branch name  git push origin --delete  You can delete the remote branch using it  git rebase  You can capture all confirmed changes in one branch and reapply them to another.  git rebase --onto  You can take changes from the client that are not on server and reapply them on your main branch  git push --force  To overwrite the registry on the server  